docs/getStarted.adoc, before:

# Getting started as a Web Developer

## Purpose

You're a Web Developer and you want to use DB UI Core in your own application. Especially for JavaScript application development, we're recommending to have a look at link:https://db-ui.github.io/elements/[DB UI Elements] instead.

## Options

There are multiple options how to use DB UI Core:

* Manually copy the artifacs to your project
* Use npm package

## How to use
Download DB UI Core to get the compiled CSS (and the small parts of JavaScript), source code, or include it with npm package manager (repository on _npmjs.com_ or _yarn_).

### Use _npmjs.com_ or _yarn_ (npm package, recommended)
In case you'd like to use DB UI Core as a dependency in your (frontend) build process and you even also care about handling DB UI Core as a dependency (e.g. for updates etc.), you need to install it as a dependency to your project and then link it within your HTML (CSS file) or within your SCSS.
Please have a look into the link:docs/getStarted.adoc[Docs / Get Started] for detailed instructions.

```bash
npm i -save @db-ui/core
```

### Download or CDN references

You could as well download all of the files that you would elsewhere retrieve via the node package directly or reference them from a CDN, as provided by the several different services listed e.g. at https://yarnpkg.com/package/@db-ui/core

[source,bash]
----
npm i --save @db-ui/core
----

This should add a new entry to your `package.json` file:
[source,json]
----
"dependencies": {
	…
	"@db-ui/core": "^x.y.z"
}
----

* You will find the relevant files at `node_modules/@db-ui/core`

* Copy the relevant files to your app or link them. Most of the build tools support automatic copying.

#### Via HTML stylesheet include

[source,html]
----
<link rel="stylesheet" href="<PATH>/enterprise/db-ui-core.css" type="text/css">
----

#### Via SCSS import

[source,scss]
----
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core";
----

### SCSS: `node_modules include path / load path

Please keep in mind, that you would need to set your `include path` also known as `load path` depending on your setup for the sass compiler to find the correct `node_modules` folder, e.g. like the following (this is similar to how other frameworks and libraries like link:https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap-npm-starter/blob/main/package.json#L18[Bootstrap] are handling this):

#### link:https://npmjs.com/sass[`sass` compiler]

[source,json]
----
{
	"scripts": {
    	"css-compile": "sass --load-path=node_modules style.scss:style.css",
	}
}
----

#### link:https://npmjs.com/node-sass[`node-sass` Compiler]

[source,json]
----
{
	"scripts": {
    	"css-compile": "node-sass --include-path node_modules style.scss -o assets/css/",
	}
}
----

## Example: how to use DB UI Core in Angular

First install npm package as described above.
Now you can choose if you want to use compiled css files or sass files.

TIP: We recommend to import the scss files as in case of angular, the angular cli will optimize, compress and convert all assets automatically during the build process.

Independently you need to add to `angular.json` a new line to assets like this:

[source,json]
----
"assets": [
	"src/favicon.ico",
	"src/assets",
	"src/site.webmanifest",
	{ "glob": "**/*", "input": "node_modules/@db-ui/core/dist", "output": "." }
],
"stylePreprocessorOptions": {
    "includePaths": [
        "node_modules/"
    ]
}
----

It will copy on *npm build* the content of *core/dist* folder to *dist* folder in the angular app, that is deployed on *ng serve* and will give you access to assets like images, icons, etc. exported by DB UI Core. Don't forget to add it to any necessary configuration part included, like e.g. `projects.PROJECTNAME.architect.build.options` as well as `projects.PROJECTNAME.architect.test.options`

### Use scss files:

You can use the overall scss file or pick the relevant parts.
E.g. you can import the overall scss files to your `src/styles.scss` by adding the following imports based on your bundler in use.

#### Webpack based bundlers (e.g. Angular or Vue CLI)

[source,scss]
----
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/webpack.assets-paths";
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core";
----

Please keep in mind, that you would need to set your include path within the `angular.json` configuration file, like this:

[source,json]
----
"stylePreprocessorOptions": {
    "includePaths": [
        "node_modules/"
    ]
}
----

Or within your `vue.config.js` (for Vue 2 or 3 CLI):

[source,json]
----
module.exports = {
  (...)
  css: {
    loaderOptions: {
      sass: {
        sassOptions: {
          includePaths: [path.resolve(__dirname, "node_modules")],
        },
      },
    },
  },
};
----

#### Rollup based bundlers (e.g. Vue with Vite)

For Rollup based bundlers like Vite or Parcel we're providing the following SCSS endpoint:

[source,scss]
----
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/rollup.assets-paths";
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core";
----


### Use css files:

If you want to use the compiled CSS directly, you can refence the css files in your index.html like this:

[source,html]
----
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/enterprise/db-ui-core.css" type="text/css">
----

## Documentation

Please find our Architectural Decision Records within the link:adr/[adr subfolder].

We're documenting our work via AsciiDoc files: http://asciidoc.org/ / https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/

## JavaScript polyfill necessary for Microsoft Internet Explorer 11 and Edge version 12 till 14

In general we're using CSS variables / CSS Custom Properties which would need a polyfill for Microsoft Internet Explorer 11 and Edge version 12 till 14 support like link:https://github.com/nuxodin/ie11CustomProperties[ie11CustomProperties].


////
	Inspirational sources for this page
	- https://boltdesignsystem.com/docs/getting-started/index.html
	- https://liquid.merck.design/ & https://docs.merck.design/?selectedKind=Intro&selectedStory=Quick%20Start
	- https://primer.style/components
	- https://palette.artsy.net/home/getting-started/
	- https://github.com/grommet/grommet
	- https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents/playground/
	- https://foundation.zurb.com/develop/getting-started.html
	- https://bulma.io/documentation/overview/start/
	- https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.3/getting-started/introduction/
	- https://material.io/develop/web/docs/getting-started/
	- https://csslayout.io/patterns/
	- https://github.com/adobe/spectrum-css
	- https://github.com/telekom/scale/
	- https://designsystemsrepo.com/design-systems/
////

Commit message:

chore: added create react app example section

docs/getStarted.adoc, after:

# Getting started as a Web Developer

## Purpose

You're a Web Developer and you want to use DB UI Core in your own application. Especially for JavaScript application development, we're recommending to have a look at link:https://db-ui.github.io/elements/[DB UI Elements] instead.

## Options

There are multiple options how to use DB UI Core:

* Manually copy the artifacs to your project
* Use npm package

## How to use
Download DB UI Core to get the compiled CSS (and the small parts of JavaScript), source code, or include it with npm package manager (repository on _npmjs.com_ or _yarn_).

### Use _npmjs.com_ or _yarn_ (npm package, recommended)
In case you'd like to use DB UI Core as a dependency in your (frontend) build process and you even also care about handling DB UI Core as a dependency (e.g. for updates etc.), you need to install it as a dependency to your project and then link it within your HTML (CSS file) or within your SCSS.
Please have a look into the link:docs/getStarted.adoc[Docs / Get Started] for detailed instructions.

```bash
npm i -save @db-ui/core
```

### Download or CDN references

You could as well download all of the files that you would elsewhere retrieve via the node package directly or reference them from a CDN, as provided by the several different services listed e.g. at https://yarnpkg.com/package/@db-ui/core

[source,bash]
----
npm i --save @db-ui/core
----

This should add a new entry to your `package.json` file:
[source,json]
----
"dependencies": {
	…
	"@db-ui/core": "^x.y.z"
}
----

* You will find the relevant files at `node_modules/@db-ui/core`

* Copy the relevant files to your app or link them. Most of the build tools support automatic copying.

#### Via HTML stylesheet include

[source,html]
----
<link rel="stylesheet" href="<PATH>/enterprise/db-ui-core.css" type="text/css">
----

#### Via SCSS import

[source,scss]
----
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core";
----

### SCSS: `node_modules include path / load path

Please keep in mind, that you would need to set your `include path` also known as `load path` depending on your setup for the sass compiler to find the correct `node_modules` folder, e.g. like the following (this is similar to how other frameworks and libraries like link:https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap-npm-starter/blob/main/package.json#L18[Bootstrap] are handling this):

#### link:https://npmjs.com/sass[`sass` compiler]

[source,json]
----
{
	"scripts": {
    	"css-compile": "sass --load-path=node_modules style.scss:style.css",
	}
}
----

#### link:https://npmjs.com/node-sass[`node-sass` Compiler]

[source,json]
----
{
	"scripts": {
    	"css-compile": "node-sass --include-path node_modules style.scss -o assets/css/",
	}
}
----

## Example: how to use DB UI Core in Angular

First install npm package as described above.
Now you can choose if you want to use compiled css files or sass files.

TIP: We recommend to import the scss files as in case of angular, the angular cli will optimize, compress and convert all assets automatically during the build process.

Independently you need to add to `angular.json` a new line to assets like this:

[source,json]
----
"assets": [
	"src/favicon.ico",
	"src/assets",
	"src/site.webmanifest",
	{ "glob": "**/*", "input": "node_modules/@db-ui/core/dist", "output": "." }
],
"stylePreprocessorOptions": {
    "includePaths": [
        "node_modules/"
    ]
}
----

It will copy on *npm build* the content of *core/dist* folder to *dist* folder in the angular app, that is deployed on *ng serve* and will give you access to assets like images, icons, etc. exported by DB UI Core. Don't forget to add it to any necessary configuration part included, like e.g. `projects.PROJECTNAME.architect.build.options` as well as `projects.PROJECTNAME.architect.test.options`

### Use scss files:

You can use the overall scss file or pick the relevant parts.
E.g. you can import the overall scss files to your `src/styles.scss` by adding the following imports based on your bundler in use.

#### Webpack based bundlers (e.g. Angular or Vue CLI)

[source,scss]
----
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/webpack.assets-paths";
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core";
----

Please keep in mind, that you would need to set your include path within the `angular.json` configuration file, like this:

[source,json]
----
"stylePreprocessorOptions": {
    "includePaths": [
        "node_modules/"
    ]
}
----

Or within your `vue.config.js` (for Vue 2 or 3 CLI):

[source,json]
----
module.exports = {
  (...)
  css: {
    loaderOptions: {
      sass: {
        sassOptions: {
          includePaths: [path.resolve(__dirname, "node_modules")],
        },
      },
    },
  },
};
----

#### Rollup based bundlers (e.g. Vue with Vite)

For Rollup based bundlers like Vite or Parcel we're providing the following SCSS endpoint:

[source,scss]
----
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/rollup.assets-paths";
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core";
----


### Use css files:

If you want to use the compiled CSS directly, you can refence the css files in your index.html like this:

[source,html]
----
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/enterprise/db-ui-core.css" type="text/css">
----

## Example 2: how to use DB UI Core in Create React app

Create React App offers only limited access to the configuration of the production build. While it uses Webpack under the hood, the WebPack configuration is not exposed to the user. 
For manage your CRA to work with SASS include Path you have to update or create your .env file:

----
SASS_PATH=node_modules
----

In addition to get the asset paths working you have to load them separately. Further description is written above under _Webpack based bundlers_.

[source,scss]
----
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/webpack.assets-paths";
@import "@db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core";
----


## Documentation

Please find our Architectural Decision Records within the link:adr/[adr subfolder].

We're documenting our work via AsciiDoc files: http://asciidoc.org/ / https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/

## JavaScript polyfill necessary for Microsoft Internet Explorer 11 and Edge version 12 till 14

In general we're using CSS variables / CSS Custom Properties which would need a polyfill for Microsoft Internet Explorer 11 and Edge version 12 till 14 support like link:https://github.com/nuxodin/ie11CustomProperties[ie11CustomProperties].


////
	Inspirational sources for this page
	- https://boltdesignsystem.com/docs/getting-started/index.html
	- https://liquid.merck.design/ & https://docs.merck.design/?selectedKind=Intro&selectedStory=Quick%20Start
	- https://primer.style/components
	- https://palette.artsy.net/home/getting-started/
	- https://github.com/grommet/grommet
	- https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents/playground/
	- https://foundation.zurb.com/develop/getting-started.html
	- https://bulma.io/documentation/overview/start/
	- https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.3/getting-started/introduction/
	- https://material.io/develop/web/docs/getting-started/
	- https://csslayout.io/patterns/
	- https://github.com/adobe/spectrum-css
	- https://github.com/telekom/scale/
	- https://designsystemsrepo.com/design-systems/
////
