docs/migrationGuide.adoc, before:

= Migration Guides

As with every release you're recommended to do a visual regression testing for your application.

Especially the following aspects have changed through the various different releases and would need your review and probably adaptions within your code base.

== DB UI Core 3.0.0 Migration Guide

=== Chip

We needed to modify the `chip` elements HTML slightly due to digital accessibility reasons, which results in the following changes you'll need to make in your HTML code:
remove `role="button"`, `tabindex="0"` and `aria-hidden="true"` from the `label` HTML element

=== Header and tabs

We've visually adapted the specification regarding header area and its included components as well as the tabs component. This leads to visually breaking changes, which might result in necessary changes within your implementation for customization.

== DB UI Core 2.2.0 Migration Guide

=== progress element

We've replaced the previous HTML implementation of the label / an actual `label` element by an `output` element. Necessary changes:

- replaced `output` element by `label` element
- especially for screenreader optimization added the following two attributes to this `label` element:
`id="{{ id }}-label" aria-hidden="true"`
- The `id`-attributes value on that `label` element needs to match the following attributes values that needs to get added onto the `progress` HTML tag itself:
`aria-describedby="{{ id }}-label"`

== DB UI Core 2.0.0 Migration Guide

=== Using SCSS/SASS sources

==== Compiler

Please note that we've switched from the deprecated link:https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-sass[`node-sass`] compiler to its successor link:https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass[`sass`]. As `sass` doesn't support the tilde (`~`) reference to your `node_modules` folder out of the box and there even also doesn't seem to be a general solution out there, we've removed that one, so that in case you're using our SCSS sources directly, you would need to provide your `node_modules` folder as a load path or include path (e.g. `--load-path=node_modules` on the `sass` CLI usage).

You need to set the load path / include path depending on your SCSS compiler as described within our link:getStarted.adoc#scss-node_modules-include-path--load-path[getting started]

Additionally we've deprecated the `@db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core-include` SCSS endpoint – please either `@import` the file `@db-ui/core/sources/css/rollup.assets-paths` or `@db-ui/core/sources/css/webpack.assets-paths` depending on your bundler, previous to importing our main CSS via `@import @db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core` directly from now on.

==== SCSS Helper functions

===== `to-rem` and `to-em` parameter values by type number

We've changed the parameter value to expect a number, which should be in pixels anyhow as we're performing this transformation from pixels to either `em` or `rem` value.

=== Design Tokens (SCSS, CSS, etc.)

All Design Tokens are now being rendered with a `db-` prefix.

=== Colors

All remaining brand colors have been removed from DB UI Core and will be used from the consumed link:https://github.com/db-ui/base[DB UI Base product]. That for we even also needed to align the variable names, both `SCSS` variables and well as the CSS Varibles / Custom Properties. The main changes are:

==== Primary Colors

* `$color-red` has been changed to `$db-color-red`
* `$color-white` has been changed to `$db-color-white`

==== Secondary Colors

All secondary colors as well have been changed to include `db-` at the front, so e.g. `$color-red-500` is now `$db-color-red-500`.

==== Transporation

* All transportation colors have gotten their specific category removed, so `$color-transport-ice` becomes `$db-color-ice`.

==== POI and feedback

* Those have been just removed and are now consumed from link:https://github.com/db-ui/base[DB UI Base].

==== Deprecated colors

We've removed the two older and already deprecated color values `$red-500` and `$DBred`, please use `$db-color-red` instead.

=== Icons

The already deprecated enterprise specific as well as the seperate transporation iconsets have been removed. These have been integrated into the general DBUX iconset. Please use those new ones listed in the link:https://db-ui.github.io/core/?p=viewall-base-icons[DB Icons section], especially the ones in the specific Transporation category.

And we've moved all icon assets from `dist/images/icons` to `dist/icons` and even a better subfolder structure in there, and as well retrieving those by [DB UI Base](https://db-ui.github.io/base/?p=viewall-icons-all) package, path `node_modules/@db-ui/base/build/assets/icons/`.

If you've used the undocumented `--icon-margin-left` and `--icon-margin-right` CSS Variables: They now became `--icon-margin-before` and `--icon-margin-after` for easier i18n.

=== Buttons

Some variants have changed or been removed:

- `primary-alternative-1`, `primary-alternative-2` and `primary-alternative-green` have been removed
- `secondary` and `secondary-text` have been replaced by `secondary-solid` and `tertiary-plain`
- `ghost` and `ghost-alternative` have been replaced by `secondary-outline`

Some sizes have changed or been removed:

- `medium` has been replaced by `regular`
- `xlarge` has been removed

=== Radio

The two colors variants have been removed. Therefor the `$radio-alternative*` SCSS variables aren't being provided any further.

=== Checkbox

The seven colors variants have been removed. Therefor the `$checkbox-alternative*` SCSS variables aren't being provided any further.

=== Toggle

The two colors variants have been removed. Therefor the `$toggle-alternative-*` SCSS variables aren't being provided any further.

=== Progress

The variant for a thiner height has been removed. Therefor the `$progress-thiner--height` SCSS variables isn't being provided any further.

=== Notification

- The two neutral variants and their classes `.is-neutral-light` and `.is-neutral-dark` have been removed.
- The notification types have been changed from `.is-*` classes (like e.g. `.is-danger`) to `data-type=` attributes like e.g. `data-type=error`
  * The danger variant and its class `.is-danger` has been renamed to `data-type=error`.
  * The info variant and its class `.is-info` has been renamed to `data-type=informative`.


=== Dialog

The classes `.is-abort` and `.is-continue` on the button elements have been removed – please use the variants / `data-variant` attributes instead.

=== Cards

The previous version of the EDS guidelines only included a rudimentary defined component, which has been totally reworked and will receive further variants. The main changes in the HTML source code have been made in the `figcaption` HTML part.

=== Tags

The stateful tag types (`a.elm-tag` and `input.elm-tag`) have been moved to a new pattern, as defined within the DB UX Design System specification: `chips`

Please use this one instead either for the `Filter Chips` or `Selection/Auswahl Chips` types defined in the specificiation.

== DB UI Core 2.0.0-0 Migration Guide

- We've renamed our package to `@db-ui/core`. The old version will still get maintained, but `@db-ui/core` includes our work regarding the DB UX Design System styles, and is thatfor the successor.

And we're still hosting the `CHANGELOG` for any changes up until version 2.0.0 within our internal Git: <https://db.de/lwfv2o> (you need to be logged in to our Deutsche Bahn VPN for these informations)

Commit message:

feat: added entry for migration guide

docs/migrationGuide.adoc, after:

= Migration Guides

As with every release you're recommended to do a visual regression testing for your application.

Especially the following aspects have changed through the various different releases and would need your review and probably adaptions within your code base.

== DB UI Core 4.0.0 Migration Guide

=== Removed brand fonts

We needed to remove the brand fonts from our link:https://www.npmjs.com/package/@db-ui/base[`@db-ui/base`] node package. Please follow the guidelines within link:https://marketingportal.extranet.deutschebahn.com/marketingportal/Design-Anwendungen/db-ux-design-system/version-2/foundation/Typografie[DB Marketingportal] (DB internal) on how to retrieve it as an Inner Source package or download the package with the font files from there (DB external).

== DB UI Core 3.0.0 Migration Guide

=== Chip

We needed to modify the `chip` elements HTML slightly due to digital accessibility reasons, which results in the following changes you'll need to make in your HTML code:
remove `role="button"`, `tabindex="0"` and `aria-hidden="true"` from the `label` HTML element

=== Header and tabs

We've visually adapted the specification regarding header area and its included components as well as the tabs component. This leads to visually breaking changes, which might result in necessary changes within your implementation for customization.

== DB UI Core 2.2.0 Migration Guide

=== progress element

We've replaced the previous HTML implementation of the label / an actual `label` element by an `output` element. Necessary changes:

- replaced `output` element by `label` element
- especially for screenreader optimization added the following two attributes to this `label` element:
`id="{{ id }}-label" aria-hidden="true"`
- The `id`-attributes value on that `label` element needs to match the following attributes values that needs to get added onto the `progress` HTML tag itself:
`aria-describedby="{{ id }}-label"`

== DB UI Core 2.0.0 Migration Guide

=== Using SCSS/SASS sources

==== Compiler

Please note that we've switched from the deprecated link:https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-sass[`node-sass`] compiler to its successor link:https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass[`sass`]. As `sass` doesn't support the tilde (`~`) reference to your `node_modules` folder out of the box and there even also doesn't seem to be a general solution out there, we've removed that one, so that in case you're using our SCSS sources directly, you would need to provide your `node_modules` folder as a load path or include path (e.g. `--load-path=node_modules` on the `sass` CLI usage).

You need to set the load path / include path depending on your SCSS compiler as described within our link:getStarted.adoc#scss-node_modules-include-path--load-path[getting started]

Additionally we've deprecated the `@db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core-include` SCSS endpoint – please either `@import` the file `@db-ui/core/sources/css/rollup.assets-paths` or `@db-ui/core/sources/css/webpack.assets-paths` depending on your bundler, previous to importing our main CSS via `@import @db-ui/core/sources/css/enterprise/db-ui-core` directly from now on.

==== SCSS Helper functions

===== `to-rem` and `to-em` parameter values by type number

We've changed the parameter value to expect a number, which should be in pixels anyhow as we're performing this transformation from pixels to either `em` or `rem` value.

=== Design Tokens (SCSS, CSS, etc.)

All Design Tokens are now being rendered with a `db-` prefix.

=== Colors

All remaining brand colors have been removed from DB UI Core and will be used from the consumed link:https://github.com/db-ui/base[DB UI Base product]. That for we even also needed to align the variable names, both `SCSS` variables and well as the CSS Varibles / Custom Properties. The main changes are:

==== Primary Colors

* `$color-red` has been changed to `$db-color-red`
* `$color-white` has been changed to `$db-color-white`

==== Secondary Colors

All secondary colors as well have been changed to include `db-` at the front, so e.g. `$color-red-500` is now `$db-color-red-500`.

==== Transporation

* All transportation colors have gotten their specific category removed, so `$color-transport-ice` becomes `$db-color-ice`.

==== POI and feedback

* Those have been just removed and are now consumed from link:https://github.com/db-ui/base[DB UI Base].

==== Deprecated colors

We've removed the two older and already deprecated color values `$red-500` and `$DBred`, please use `$db-color-red` instead.

=== Icons

The already deprecated enterprise specific as well as the seperate transporation iconsets have been removed. These have been integrated into the general DBUX iconset. Please use those new ones listed in the link:https://db-ui.github.io/core/?p=viewall-base-icons[DB Icons section], especially the ones in the specific Transporation category.

And we've moved all icon assets from `dist/images/icons` to `dist/icons` and even a better subfolder structure in there, and as well retrieving those by [DB UI Base](https://db-ui.github.io/base/?p=viewall-icons-all) package, path `node_modules/@db-ui/base/build/assets/icons/`.

If you've used the undocumented `--icon-margin-left` and `--icon-margin-right` CSS Variables: They now became `--icon-margin-before` and `--icon-margin-after` for easier i18n.

=== Buttons

Some variants have changed or been removed:

- `primary-alternative-1`, `primary-alternative-2` and `primary-alternative-green` have been removed
- `secondary` and `secondary-text` have been replaced by `secondary-solid` and `tertiary-plain`
- `ghost` and `ghost-alternative` have been replaced by `secondary-outline`

Some sizes have changed or been removed:

- `medium` has been replaced by `regular`
- `xlarge` has been removed

=== Radio

The two colors variants have been removed. Therefor the `$radio-alternative*` SCSS variables aren't being provided any further.

=== Checkbox

The seven colors variants have been removed. Therefor the `$checkbox-alternative*` SCSS variables aren't being provided any further.

=== Toggle

The two colors variants have been removed. Therefor the `$toggle-alternative-*` SCSS variables aren't being provided any further.

=== Progress

The variant for a thiner height has been removed. Therefor the `$progress-thiner--height` SCSS variables isn't being provided any further.

=== Notification

- The two neutral variants and their classes `.is-neutral-light` and `.is-neutral-dark` have been removed.
- The notification types have been changed from `.is-*` classes (like e.g. `.is-danger`) to `data-type=` attributes like e.g. `data-type=error`
  * The danger variant and its class `.is-danger` has been renamed to `data-type=error`.
  * The info variant and its class `.is-info` has been renamed to `data-type=informative`.


=== Dialog

The classes `.is-abort` and `.is-continue` on the button elements have been removed – please use the variants / `data-variant` attributes instead.

=== Cards

The previous version of the EDS guidelines only included a rudimentary defined component, which has been totally reworked and will receive further variants. The main changes in the HTML source code have been made in the `figcaption` HTML part.

=== Tags

The stateful tag types (`a.elm-tag` and `input.elm-tag`) have been moved to a new pattern, as defined within the DB UX Design System specification: `chips`

Please use this one instead either for the `Filter Chips` or `Selection/Auswahl Chips` types defined in the specificiation.

== DB UI Core 2.0.0-0 Migration Guide

- We've renamed our package to `@db-ui/core`. The old version will still get maintained, but `@db-ui/core` includes our work regarding the DB UX Design System styles, and is thatfor the successor.

And we're still hosting the `CHANGELOG` for any changes up until version 2.0.0 within our internal Git: <https://db.de/lwfv2o> (you need to be logged in to our Deutsche Bahn VPN for these informations)
